OSU Cyberinfrastructure Association Constitution

Article I
Name:	The name of this organization shall be the OSU Cyberinfrastructure Association (CIA). 

Article II
Purpose: The purpose of this organization shall be to provide an opportunity for students with an interest in cyberinfrastructure (CI) and related fields to meet and discuss various CI-related topics and to provide a form for professional development for students seeking a degree in a CI-related field. Members will help engage the OSU community concerning cyberinfrastructure and related fields.

Article III
Membership:	Membership is limited to all students who are enrolled at OSU. Honorary and 	associate membership may be granted to non-students, but they may not have any 	voting rights or hold office.

Article IV
Officers
Section 1. The qualifications for officers in this organization shall be that they are full-time students at OSU and have at least a 2.0 GPA for undergraduates, 3.0 GPA for graduate students.
Section 2. The officers of this organization shall be the President, Vice President, Treasurer, and Secretary.
The duties of these officers shall be:
	President: Primary organizer of general and executive officer meetings, including the creation of meeting agendas. Call meetings to order and close all meetings. Ensure execution of responsibilities by executive officers. Contact officers with any new officer information. Serve as chief spokesperson for OSU CIA.
Vice President: Assist the president with reminders, notes, scheduling, and other duties as needed. Reserve locations for general and executive officer meetings. Serve in the stead of the president should the president be unavailable.
	Treasurer: Keep track of club finances, including but not limited to reviewing monthly statements, depositing funds and collection of dues. Attend annual treasurer’s workshop. Responsible for P-Card duties if organization is issued one.
	Secretary: Document the details of club meetings. File organizational reports with the Department of Campus Life. Responsible for general correspondence to and from OSU CIA.
Section 3. Faculty Advisor must be a full-time faculty or staff member of OSU. The advisor will 	be the staff member most closely associated with the club, if they choose to decline we 	will find the next closely associated staff member and so on.
Section 4. Other organization officers and committee persons will be added as outlined in by-	laws.
Section 5. Committee chairs shall be appointed by the President at the beginning of the fall semester to serve a one-academic year term. The executive officers and advisor will consider all interested members. They will make a decision based on the member’s qualifications and submit the decision to the general membership. During the discussion of the candidates, previous committee chairs who have applied for reappointment shall not be present, though they may be present for voting.
The duties of these committee chairs shall be listed in the bylaws.

Article V
Elections
Section 1. Voting members of the organization must be students of OSU. Honorary and associate membership may be granted to non-students, but they may not have any voting rights or hold office. Voting members must also be in good-standing with the organization’s GPA requirements – a minimum of 2.0 for undergraduates and 3.0 for graduate students.
Section 2. Nominations for officer positions must come from an eligible voting member of the organization (see above). Members who also fulfill the officer eligibility requirements can volunteer their name for an officer position without a nomination.
Section 3. The elections of this organization will occur at the last meeting before Spring Break and new officers will take office during the next school year. This will give new officers time to shadow the officer whose position they are taking over the next year. Terms of office will be one academic year (August – May). Vacancies will be filled by the next runner up for the position. If they choose to decline or are not available, then the club will have a re-vote for the position.

Article VI
Quorum: A quorum for this organization shall be a simple majority, or 50% of voting members plus one.
Article VII
Bylaws: A by-law may be passed at any regular meeting of the organization by a majority vote of those in attendance, providing a quorum is present.
Article VIII
Dues: Dues for this organization shall be collected according to the by-laws.
Article IX
Compliance
Section 1. At the beginning of the fall semester, OSU Cyberinfrastructure Association shall report the name of officers and advisors to the Department of Leadership and Campus Life and shall promptly report any changes that occur during the school year. Updates will be made through the CampusLink program.
Section 2. The OSU Cyberinfrastructure Association will comply with all Oklahoma State University policies and regulations as detailed by the submission of the “Affirmation of Compliance” document.
Section 3. The funds of OSU Cyberinfrastructure Association, if any, will be deposited with the University banking services and these may be audited yearly, preferably at the time a new treasurer is installed.
Section 4. It is understood that failure to submit such materials, either through continued 	negligence or willful omission, may result in the suspension of the charter of this 	organization by the Committee on Student Organizations.
Article X
Amendments: In the event that the organization decides to amend the constitution, at least two thirds of the voting membership must approve of the constitutional changes. All changes must be submitted to the Department of Leadership and Campus life for approval by the Committee on Student Organizations.  

